Atharva Divekar  
9819245128  
divekaratharva23@gmail.com  

Atharva Divekar  

Wittyicon  

Education  
Vishwakarma Institute of Information Technology  
Expected May 2025  
Bachelor of Technology in Electronics and Telecommunications Engineering  
GPA: 9.08  
Pune, Maharashtra  
• Relevant Coursework: Operating Systems, Data Structures, Analysis Of Algorithms, Computational Science, Machine Learning, Computer Networking  

Experience  
Vishwakarma Institute of Information Technology  
Sept 2023 – Feb 2024  
Research Intern - NonInvasive method for Blood Glucose Estimation using PPG Signals  
Pune, Maharashtra  
• Explored the Photoplethysmography (PPG) signals using various processing techniques in Python and R. Extracted relevant features from the PPG waveforms using references to correlate with the target feature (blood glucose).  
• Conducted and explored various feature selection and engineering techniques to further reduce the Mean Squared Error (MSE) loss. Trained and tested multiple machine learning algorithms on the extracted feature set, tuning the parameters to achieve a cross-validation accuracy of 92%.  
• Attempted to develop a mathematical model from the top 5 features that had the highest correlation with the target feature (blood glucose).  

Projects  
RAG for Paper With Code: | Python, HuggingFace, Langchain, Streamlit  
• Developed a machine learning research navigation system for papers with code website using Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) framework, serverless vector database (Upstash), BGE models from HuggingFace, and integration of Mixtral-8x7B-Instruct-v0.1 as a language model. Created an interactive web application with Streamlit.  

Auto PCOS: | Image Processing, Python, TensorFlow, ResNet  
• Developed a binary classification model using transfer learning with a ResNetRS420 base model for the classification of Polycystic Ovary Syndrome. The model achieved impressive performance, with an accuracy of 90.52%, precision of 0.9001, recall of 0.9716, and an F1 score of 0.9345.  

Technical Skills  
Languages: C, C++, JAVA, Python, R, Julia  
Technologies: TensorFlow, Keras, PyTorch, Scikit, NLTK, SpaCy, Flask, OpenCV, HuggingFace Transformers, Langchain, Streamlit  
Tools: GIT, GitHub, Slack, Jira  
Platforms: Linux, Windows, Arduino, Raspberry, AWS, GCP, Matlab  
Soft Skills: Teamwork, Problem Solving, Adaptability, Time Management, Communication  

Achievements  
• Presented a technical paper on a single-axis solar tracking system for residential applications for improved energy throughput at VishwaCON’23 (November 2023).  
• Presented research work based on detecting internal bleeding in the gastrointestinal tract using WCE images at the International Conference on Machine Learning, IoT, and Big Data (ICMIB) 2024.  
• Achieved a rank in the top 3 in the Auto PCOS open hackathon by MisaHUB (IIT Jammu) worldwide.  
• Ranked 52nd on the public leaderboard on Hugging Face Hub’s Competition named Movie Genre Prediction worldwide - July 2023.  
• Contributed to open-source repositories including Julia, PyTorch, Mozilla, and LeetCode-Feedback.  

Social Engagements  
Design Head: at Coding Forum at VIIT Pune  
Volunteer: at Google Developer Group Pune  
Volunteer: at India Science Festival 2024 at IISER Pune  
Sports Engagements: Chess (Inter-Collegiate), Volleyball, Football  
